# eProcurement System
This is a eProcurement system created for QED to manage Tenders, Request for Proposal and Request for Quotations

## Getting Started
The following instruction will help you set up the project as a developer.

### Prerequisites
Before you clone this project you need to:


```
Install Python 3.7 
```

```
Create a virtual environment
```


```
Make sure your virtualenvironment is activated everytime you work on this project
```

### Managing Dependencies
After cloning the project, on your terminal navigate to project base folder (where requirements.txt is)
To install dependencies run the following command:

```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

In case you add dependencies to the project, make sure you update requirements.txt by 
running the following command.

```
pip freeze > requirements.txt
```

Make sure you use git flow, the latest code will be on develop branch.

### Configuration File
Django uses settings.py files for configuration. Do not edit this file, instead create 
a file named local_settings.py in the folder where settings.py is located and copy 
everything that is located inside settings.py apart from the last lines which start
with try. 

Every time you want to change configuration use local_settings.py


### Version Control
Since we are using git - make sure you setup git flow on your local machine. We will be 
using feature development structure. 

### Seeding

```
python manage.py seed --mode=fresh
```

### Development
After developing a specific feature - merge your code to your local develop and push to online develop.


### Running Migrations
Before you can run the project in development environment, you need to set up the 
migration. To create initial migration run the following command:
```
python manage.py makemigrations qed
```

To sync you migration with the database use the following command:
```
python manage.py migrate
```

### Built With
* [Python 3.7](https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-370/) - Programming Language
* [Django Web Framework](https://www.djangoproject.com/) - The web framework used
* [Git Flow Cheatsheet](https://danielkummer.github.io/git-flow-cheatsheet/) - Version Control


### Removing All Migrations Files
Sometimes in the course of development you find yourself at point where you need to clear
migrations. You can use the following commands:

```
find . -path "*/migrations/*.py" -not -name "__init__.py" -delete
```

```
find . -path "*/migrations/*.pyc"  -delete
```

### Seeding innitial data to use
There are some data that are required for the smooth running of the syste (you might do without them but they are important). To have them:

```
 python manage.py seed --mode=fresh
```

# Command to run Celery (beat) 
```
celery -A backend beat -l INFO
```

# Command to run celery 
```
celery -A backend worker -l info

```
# Command to run flower

```
celery -A backend flower --port=5566
```
or it you don't want to do fresh of these data just use command below. However fresh is recommended.
```
 python manage.py seed
```

### Authors
* **Xavier Frankline**
* **Denis Njeru**
* **Emmanuel Gathage**
* **Simon Kiama**


## Company
* [QED Solutions](https://qedsolutions.co.ke/)

